---
outline: deep
---

# What's New in BLuau 1.0

**Editors**: KDUser12

This article explains the new features in BLuau 1.0. This version was released on February 22, 2025. For more details, check the [changelog](https://github.com/blockguard-sf/BLuau/blob/master/CHANGELOG/1.0.md).

## Summary – Version Information

BLuau 1.0 is the current stable version. The most significant changes include an interactive package manager, a package loader, and new features added to the library.

Warning and debug messages are handled by the [logging](/api-reference/allos/logging.html) module and are highlighted in color to better detect potential errors. These messages can easily be disabled using the [logging module documentation](/api-reference/allos/logging.html#information).

The new library features include new modules to improve developers' development experience and make certain repetitive tasks easier.

This article does not attempt to provide a complete specification of all new features, but rather gives a global and practical overview. For more details, refer to the documentation, such as [BLuau API](/api-reference/index.html). Please note that the "What's New" section is generally not kept up to date once a feature has been fully implemented.

## Initial Release

Introduction of the BLuau project, a package manager for the Luau programming language, designed for the Roblox development/game environment.

> [!Note]  
> This section only exists for BLuau version 1.0 due to subsequent versions that do not exist.

- Introduction of the BLuau Library Manager for Luau, designed for the Roblox environment.

## New Features

### Library Module Management

BLuau uses a module management system that allows loading each module with its content (functions, variables, indices, etc.), but also a system that simplifies the importing of modules into your code via a less complex and more intuitive directory structure. This makes it easier for anyone to understand how to import a module via the BLuau library.

- Load various modules from the library using an internal loader.
- Import modules into your code using the [BLuau API](/api-reference/index.html) (BLibrary), which interacts directly with the loader.

### Debugging System

With the [logging](/api-reference/allos/logging.html) module, which includes a feature for displaying debug messages. While this feature is not directly intended for debugging, it can be used in this way.

> [!WARNING]  
> Note that if you enable debug messages, you might see messages from other modules using the same system as yours.  
> These messages cannot be removed, and in the future, we will work on allowing you to create your own debug level.  
> We will also try to implement as many debug messages as possible using the [logging](/api-reference/allos/logging.html) module.  
> For example, [rbxdss](/api-reference/data-persistence/rbxdss.html) already uses this system to display debug messages to inform you about the smooth execution of the module.

## New Modules

- [logging](/api-reference/allos/logging.html): An advanced and customizable logging system for Luau.
- [rbxdss](/api-reference/data-persistence/rbxdss.html): Allows for simplified and secure use of the Roblox `DataStoreService` API.
- [profiler](): Designed to measure the performance of your code.
- [authz](/api-reference/data-persistence/authz.html): A permission manager allowing you to assign specific permissions to players.
- [unittest](): Allows you to unit test your code.
